I CALLED
THE REGULAR BUILDING MORE OF A
REPEAL MEETING FOR MAYBE 15 TO
25 CAN MEAN SEVERAL COMPANIES
BOARD MEMBER PAUL DARLING,
THEIR BOARD MEMBER KEVIN COX
HERE BOARD MEMBER BOB HART HERE
,BOARD MEMBER DAVID ON STAFF
AND HUGH FLACK JR. BOTH OUR
ABSENT STAFF MIKE LEMIEUX HERE
,MIKE REDMOND, ERIC JULIET
HARVEY HERE AND WE HAVE QUORUM.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
>> THE FIRST ITEM ON THE AGENDA
IS PUBLIC COMMENTARY.
GENERAL PUBLIC HERE.
SO THE NEXT ITEM ON THE AGENDA
IS THE APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA
AND EMOTION MOVED TO APPROVE.
SECOND, THOSE IN FAVOR I PASSES
REZO APPROVE OF THE MINUTES
FROM THE MARCH TO 2025 MEANING
THOSE ARE IN THE PACKAGE WE
HAVE IN COMMON ON THOSE IN THE
PACKAGE HERE IF NOT, I HAVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THOSE HERE.
THEY WERE EMAILED I DON'T THINK
THEY'RE PAGE FIVE
.
I START AT NINE
IS BASICALLY
THIS MOTION FROM THE PREVIOUS
ONE WAS BORN TO THE MAY 15TH
MEETING MOTION TO APPROVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE A SECOND
THOSE IN FAVOR I PASSES THE
FIRST ITEM ON THE AGENDA TODAY
IS THAT WE'LL SHOW ACTIONS AND
THE CONTINUATION OF THE DEBATE
TWENTY FIVE ZERO ZERO SEVEN
REPEAL SIX TWENTY FOUR STATES
IN MICHIGAN AND THE PROCESS
HERE IS FIRST OF ALL HOW TO
SUPPORT
ANY KIND OF FUND
RAISING SUPPORT GROUP LAST
MONTH.
THEN WE'LL HAVE THE APPLICANT
SIGN IN AND GIVE US A UPDATE ON
THEIR REQUEST AND THEN AN
OPPORTUNITY TO RESPOND TO THAT
AND THEN THE BOARD WILL ASK ANY
QUESTIONS OF THE APPLICANT.
>> WE HAVE THEN WE HAVE A
MOTION ON THE VARIANCE AND WITH
THREE STAFF MEMBERS HERE I'LL
TAKE A MAJORITY OF THAT ONE BE
HERE TODAY TO AT LEAST TWO OUT
OF THREE VOTES FOR TO PASS THE
FIRST FULL START UP WITH THE
SECOND PERSON.
>> SO THE STAFF REPORT HASN'T
CHANGED FROM THE LAST MEETING
ESSENTIALLY THEY'RE SEEKING
RELIEF FROM THE DEPTH
REQUIREMENT AND THE RISER
HEIGHT AT THE LAST MEETING IT
WAS REQUESTED SOME ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION BE PROVIDED WITH
REFERENCE TO SOME PICTURES AND
POSSIBLE ALTERNATIVE OPTIONS
THE APPLICANT HAS PROVIDED
THOSE AND THAT AGAIN IN
SUMMARY, WHAT IS HERE
REQUESTING AGAIN TODAY AND THE
UPDATED INFORMATION WE WE
APPRECIATE YOUR TAKING TIME OUT
OF YOUR DAY TO MEET WITH US AS
WELL AS THE STAFF DWIGHT
HENDRICKS IS THE ARCHITECT WHO
HAS PROVIDED THE UPDATES AND
WILL SHARE THE DIFFICULTIES AND
PROBLEMS RELATED TO OUR
REQUESTS.
SO DWIGHT OK AND I THINK THAT
YOU ALL HAVE THE PLANT YOU HAVE
THE PLANS THAT UPDATED PLANS
THROUGH OK THE I TRIED TO MAKE
IT AS AS SIMPLE AS POSSIBLE.
I SEE A FIVE POINT ZERO
BASICALLY SHOWING THE EXISTING
PLAN THE PROPOSED VARIANCE AND
THEN THE REASON THAT THE
REQUIRED CODE COMPLIANT PLAN
DOES NOT WORK.
THE ALTERNATIVE PLAN THAT WAS
SUGGESTED AT THE LAST MEETING
BASICALLY THE EXISTING STAIRS
ARE EXTREMELY STEEP.
IT'S THE RISERS ARE NINE INCH
AND RIGHT WITH TREADS.
I'M SORRY THE RISERS ARE EIGHT
AND FIVE SIXTEENTHS WITH A NINE
INCH TREAD WHICH CREATES A
ANGLE OF INCLINE OF FORTY THREE
DEGREES WHICH IS ALMOST FORTY
FIVE DEGREES.
THEY'RE EXTREMELY STEEP AND
IT'S SORT OF A WONDER NO ONE'S
ACTUALLY DIED.
THEY'RE ALSO BOLD IDEAS 110
YEARS OLD SO THEY HAVE METAL
NOSE RINGS WITH CONCRETE WHICH
ARE NOW EXTREMELY SMOOTH.
SO IT'S THEY'RE REALLY SLIPPERY
ON TOP OF BEING REALLY STEEP
AND THEY'RE NOW THE THE
PROPOSED PLAN LAST TIME AT THIS
MEETING WAS TO USE THE REGULAR
MINIMUM REQUIREMENT WHICH WOULD
BE THE 11 INCHES WITH SEVEN
INCH RISE.
AND SO I WENT THROUGH AND
CREATED THAT IN THE ONLY SPACE
THAT IS POSSIBLE DUE TO THE
FACT THAT THE BUILDING IS
ENTIRELY BUILT OUT OF STEEL
CONCRETE THERE'S NO WOOD OR
ANYTHING IN THE BUILDING.
IT WAS BUILT TO BE COMPLETELY
FIREPROOF ON PURPOSE AND HAS
THESE MASSIVE BEAMS GOING EVERY
WHICH WAY.
SO ON THE THIRD PLAN YOU CAN
SEE THAT THE IDEA OF A LANDING
A SECOND LANDING AT THE BOTTOM
OF THE STAIRS IS IMPOSSIBLE FOR
TWO REASONS.
ONE IS HEADROOM ISSUE THERE IS
THE MAIN CARRYING BEAM FOR THE
ALL THE FLOORS ABOVE GOES RIGHT
WHERE THAT WOULD OVERHEAD
OF THAT LANDING WHICH ONLY
LEAVES YOU I THINK IT'S LIKE
FIVE FOOT EIGHT OR SOMETHING
FIVE FOOT SIX HEADROOM AND THAT
THAT BEAM IS NOT IT'S THAT'S
IMPOSSIBLE TO MOVE THAT BEING
THE OTHER REASON IS THAT THERE
IS THE MAIN HVAC SYSTEM THAT
WAS JUST INSTALLED ALSO RUNS
THROUGH THERE WHICH WOULD COST
A LOT OF MONEY TO MOVE BUT IT
DOESN'T REALLY MATTER BECAUSE
THERE'S NO HEADROOM.
SO WE'RE BASICALLY ASKING FOR
JUST ONE QUARTER OF AN INCH
OF HEIGHT VARIANCE FROM THE
SEVEN TO SEVEN AND A QUARTER
RISER IN ORDER TO BE ABLE TO
MAKE A MUCH WIDER AND MUCH LESS
STEEP ANGLE AND DEFINITELY A
MUCH SAFER STAIRCASE.
THE WHOLE IDEA IS JUST TO MAKE
THIS A LOT SAFER.
THIS IS THE MAIN STAIRS BETWEEN
THE MAIN FLOOR AND THE BASEMENT
WHICH GETS USED HUNDREDS
OF TIMES EVERY SINGLE DAY AND
WE'RE JUST TRYING TO MAKE IT SO
THAT THIS IS LIKE A LOT SAFER
FOR ALL THE PEOPLE THAT USE THE
STAIR AND THE I WOULD JUST AS
CLARIFICATION OF THE TREAD
DEPTH AS MEASURED FROM THE
NOSING TO NOSING OF THE STEP
BELOW IT WOULD BE THE 11 INCHES
THAT'S WELD.
>> WHICH VERSION DO YOU MEAN
YOU MEAN AND WHAT WHAT YOU'RE
WHAT YOU'RE PROPOSING.
>> SO YEAH I THINK WE WERE IT
EARLIER DWIGHT I THINK YOU WERE
MEASURING IT AND NOT INCLUDING
OR THAT MENTIONED WE WERE USING
WAS INCLUDING THE NOSING IN THE
CODE REQUIREMENT DID NOT
INCLUDE THE NOSING SO THEY NEED
TO TREAD AGREEMENTS ON THE
TREAD.
>> OH YES I THOUGHT YOU MEANT
THE OTHER VERSION.
YEAH NO I JUST WANTED TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE WERE CLEAR ON WHAT
WAS BEING REQUESTED.
>> RIGHT YEAH.
WHO IS RISE AND RISE OF AN
ENGINE.
RIGHT WHAT'S THAT RIGHT.
THE RISE OF THE PROPOSED PLAN
IS TEN AND A QUARTER DON'T KNOW
THE RISER IS SEVEN IN A QUARTER
TO GET THE TRENDING.
NO IT'S TEN TEN INCHES WITH A
THREE QUARTER INCH NOSING
SUPERVISION YOU ACTUALLY
INCREASE FROM ELEVEN HUNDRED TO
ATTEND TO RIGHT
.
WHICH IS THE RESIDENTIAL
CODE IS MULTIFAMILY.
NO I KNOW WHAT I MEAN.
IS IT IT'S NOT IT'S NOT IT'S
IT'S COMPLETELY COMPLY WITH THE
CODE BUT THIS IS CONSIDERED
COMMERCIAL BREAKS CITY BEING
OVER CONCERNS IT CONSIDERS US A
COMMERCIAL USE DON'T HAVE ANY
COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS YET FROM
THE PROPOSAL YOU HAD THE FIRST
TIME TILL NOW THERE WERE AT THE
BOTTOM OF THE STAIR THEY WERE
TWO DOORS LEADING OUT AND NOW
THERE IS JUST ONE DOOR ON THE
IT LOOKS LIKE THERE'S A WALL
MISSING ON THE RIGHT HAND SIDE
OF THE PROPOSED.
YEAH, WE JUST IN THE LAST
MEETING THEY SAID IT WOULD NOT
BE REQUIRED TO BE ON FIRE
EXCEPT SINCE WE ALREADY HAVE
THE TWO SO WE REMOVED THAT IN
ORDER TO MAKE IT MORE OPEN TO
THE LOWER SPACE.
>> SO IT'S AN OPEN STAIR WITH
THE GARBAREK RIGHT.
>> AND THE WALLS ARE THAT WAS A
VERY WEAK NO THAT WAS THAT WAS
A NEW WALL ANYWAYS, THERE
WASN'T A BRICK WALL HERE HE WAS
IN THE FALL.
I KNOW THAT THE BEING THAT THE
SUPPORTING BEAM IS RIGHT ABOVE
THAT
IT DOES HELP YOU SEE THE
PICTURES.
OH, THAT WAS A BIG HELP TO BE
ABLE TO GET IN THE PACKAGE AND
WE'RE GOING TO MAKE SOLUTIONS
THERE AND ALSO HAVING THE YOU
KNOW, PROPOSED PLAN AND
EXISTING PLAN LOOKS LIKE YOU'RE
DOING QUITE A BIT OF WORK WITH
THAT BACK ON THE FIRST FLOOR TO
TO MAKE THE STAIRWAY WIDER.
OH YEAH.
RIGHT.
BASICALLY IF YOU IF YOU IF WE
TRIED TO DO THE REQUIRED PLAN
IT WOULD IT WOULD NOT LEAVE ANY
ROOM AT ALL LEFT FOR THE
BATHROOM SO THAT THERE WOULD NO
LONGER BE ABLE TO BE A BATHROOM
UP THERE AND THAT'S LIKE THE
MAIN BATHROOM FOR THE WHOLE
FIRST FLOOR.
IT DOES LOOK LIKE EVEN WIDENING
THE STAIR JUST QUITE A BIT THAT
YOU'RE MOVING THE DOOR FOR THAT
BATHROOM RIGHT.
BUT IF THERE'S ENOUGH ROOM
BEDROOM WISE TO KEEP THE TOILET
STALL THE TREADS THE STAIRWAY
TREADS TO THE FIRST FLOOR, YOU
HAVE TO BE RELOCATED.
THERE'S H.V. EQUIPMENT THAT HAS
TO BE RELOCATED AS WELL AS
RECONFIGURING PLUMBING IN THAT
FIRST FLOOR BATHROOM WHICH IS
ALL A VERY LARGE EXPENSE THAT
THE OWNERS ARE WILLING TO TAKE
ON TO TRY TO GET TO THIS SAFER
STAIRWAY SYSTEM
.
IS THERE A BEAM AT THE
TOP
OF THE EXISTING STAIRWAY THAT
PREVENTS THAT THAT, FRED, FROM
MOVING CLOSER TO WHERE THE DOOR
LOCATION IS?
>> YES, IS IT RIGHT AT THE TOP
RIGHT OR IS IT BACK IN LINE
WITH THE THE SECTION IT LOOKS
LIKE A SECTION OPPOSED IN
REQUIRED IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S
ALMOST IN ONE WITH THE DOOR
THAT WAY YOU SHOULD HAVE
DROPPED OR DIDN'T CALL IT BEING
THERE TO SHOW THE DROP THERE.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHERE YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT THOUGH.
LOOK AT THE PROPOSED VARIANCE
PLANNED SECTION.
HEY, YOU'LL SEE THE TOP RIGHT
THE DIMENSION AND THEN THE
BASEMENT CEILING A FEW DROP
PIECES THAT THE STRUCTURE WILL
BE THE STRUCTURE BEING CLOSER
TO THE BASE OF THE RISER AND I
CAN I CAN TO SEE WHAT YOU'RE
THOUGH IF YOU PAY THE STRUCTURE
YOU'LL BE VERY LUCKY TO BE HERE
.
OH NO THERE'S THAT THAT IS THE
MAIN ONE THAT I WAS TALKING
ABOUT THE CASE HERE THAT'S
COMING GOOD.
I CAN'T BE MOVED SO I CAN'T
MOVE ANY OF THIS THAT WE CAN
MOVE CLOSER TO THAT.
WELL IF IF IT DID THEN THERE
WOULDN'T BE ENOUGH ROOM WHEN
YOU OPEN THE DOOR YOU WANT TO
BE LANDING WE WOULDN'T BE DOING
OUR PART OF A DOOR THERE THOUGH
BECAUSE IT'S NOT EVEN CLOSE
ANYMORE.
WELL, WE WANT TO KEEP THE DOOR.
THAT DOOR HAS BEEN THERE
FOREVER.
YOU WANT TO KEEP IT THERE JUST
FOR SOUNDS LIKE A LOT OF SOUND
DOWNSTAIRS.
THE WHOLE IDEA THE WHOLE IDEA
OF THE BASEMENT IS TO HAVE THAT
BE THE PLACE WHERE THEY CAN GO
CRAZY AND THEN GO UPSTAIRS, NOT
GET TRAPPED EVEN NOT TO THOSE
BOYS WHATEVER
OF THIS THE DOOR
AT THE BOTTOM OF THE STAIRS
WOULDN'T OH NO BECAUSE IT'S AN
OPEN STAIRWAY IF YOU LEAVE THAT
DOOR AT THE TOP AND PLACE IF
IT'S PROPPED OPEN WHICH
INVARIABLY WILL BE IS IT GOING
TO INTERFERE WITH EGRESS FROM
THE VESTIBULE OR THAT YOU HAD
IT SWINGING THE OTHER WAY IN
THE FIRST SCHEME?
>> YEAH, WE MANAGE I MANAGE
THAT FACILITY.
MY COMPANY MANAGE THAT FACILITY
DAY TO DAY BASIS AND I CAN TELL
YOU THAT THAT DOOR HAS AN
AUTOMATIC CLOSURE ON IT AND IT
IS KEPT CLOSED THAT THAT IS NOT
SOMETHING THAT'S ALLOWED TO BE
PROPPED OPEN.
COULD IT BE DONE OCCASIONALLY?
YES, BUT IT'S IT'S RARE AND
IT'S NOT ALLOWED TO BE PROPPED
OPEN.
I BELIEVE THAT WE HAVE WELL I
KNOW THAT THERE'S A MONITORED
FIRE SYSTEM THERE.
THERE IS NOT A HOLD OPEN SENSOR
ON THAT DOOR EITHER THAT WOULD
ALLOW IT TO BE PROPPED AND HELD
OPEN UNDER THE ALARM SYSTEM
IN
THE LAST TIME WE TALKED INSTEAD
OF HAVING TO SHOW YOU COMING UP
THREE THREE THREE RISES THE
BOTTOM LANDING AND I THINK WE
ARE TALKING MORE LIKE ONE OR
TWO AND THE THREE OF THEM MAKES
IT SO THE HEADROOM IS SO TIGHT
THERE.
>> YOU KNOW, AND BUT THAT'S THE
ONLY WAY IT WOULD THAT'S THAT'S
BECAUSE THERE'S NOT ENOUGH ROOM
TO TO GO ANY BARRIER WALL
RIGHT.
THERE WOULDN'T BE ENOUGH ROOM
FOR A COLD COMPLIANT LANDING I
BELIEVE EVEN WITH A WINDOW IN
WELL WEINER'S AREN'T VERY SAFE
.
I MEAN THAT'S MY GUESS MY FIRST
LANDING TO MY SECOND FROM ME.
BUT IF IT'S IF THE LANDING IS
CUT IN HALF, THE LANDING IS
TURNED INTO TWO STEPS.
RIGHT.
THEORETICALLY IF THAT WERE TO
HAPPEN WE'D GO FROM FIVE EIGHT
TO ANOTHER NINE INCHES OR SEVEN
INCHES.
SO WE WOULD BE AT SIX FOUR YOU
KNOW SIX THREE SOMETHING LIKE
THAT WHICH I BELIEVE STILL
UNDER THE REQUIRED HEAD HEIGHT
RANGE STAIRWAY
.
YEAH.
BELIEVE ME, I TRIED A MILLION
DIFFERENT VERSIONS OF THIS
EXCEPT MOVING THE TOP RIGHT
OF BACK BUT I IT TO ME THAT'S
YOU'RE NOT REALLY SUPPOSED TO
DO THAT ANYWAYS BECAUSE
OF ISADORA THERE BUT I MEAN YOU
THINK YOU CAN SAY WE SAVED HER
AND THEN YOU'RE ALSO AND YOU
LEAVING THE DOOR THERE.
>> WELL I THINK THAT'S IF YOU
IF YOU DIDN'T HAVE THE DOOR
THERE AND WE THINK THE LANDING
COULD BE REALLY WERE THE DOOR
THE FIRST RIGHT.
>> WE WERE THE DOOR THAT NOW
YOU GAVE BUT IF YOU DON'T HAVE
ANY DOOR AT ALL I MEAN I GUESS
SO IN THEORY BUT THEN THEN
THERE'S I MEAN THEN YOU WOULD
HAVE THE WHOLE DOWNSTAIRS OH
LIKE THERE'S NO SOUND THERE
WOULD BE NO WAY TO LEAVE
BECAUSE YOU COULD PUT THIS IN
THE BOTTOM SO I'M JUST USING IT
IF I CAN ADD A COMMENT THAT
DOES RELATE TO THE CODE BUT
RELATES TO THE USE OF THE THE
LOWER LEVEL THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN HAS REQUIREMENTS
FOR FRATERNITIES TO HAVE SOCIAL
EVENTS AND ONE OF THOSE
REQUIREMENTS IS TO LIMIT ACCESS
TO THE AREA WHERE THERE IS
EVENT ONLY HAVE ONE DOOR IN ONE
DOOR OUT SO THAT THEY CAN
CONTROL THE PEOPLE COMING IN
AND OUT CHECK IDS AND THINGS
OF THAT NATURE SO THAT DOOR AT
THE TOP OF THE STAIRS HELPS
COMPLY WITH THAT REQUIREMENT.
SO AGAIN, NOT A
CODE REQUIREMENT BUT I'M JUST
SHARING ANOTHER REASON WHY THAT
I JUST NEEDED A BIT OF ROOM OR
LEFT FOR THE ENTIRE HOUSE.
WELL, IT'S WHERE THE SOCIAL
EVENT IS BEING HELD AND SO IS
DWIGHT WAS EXPLAINING THE WHOLE
GOAL IS TO MOVE ALL OF THE
SOCIAL EVENTS TO THAT LOWER
LEVEL AND THE WAY THAT THEY
MEET THAT CODE IS ACTUALLY THE
STUDENTS MOST OF THE STUDENTS
THAT ARE GUESTS WILL COME IN
THROUGH THE OUTSIDE DOOR THAT
THEY COME AROUND THE OUTSIDE
AND COME IN THAT DOOR SO THEY
CAN MANAGE THAT ACCESS THAT WAY
.
SO IT'S I GUESS IT'S NOT A
CODE REASON BUT IT'S JUST A
SUPPORTS THE USE OF IT.
SORRY, BUT THAT BEING SAID,
THAT'S THE IMPORTANCE OF TRYING
TO GET THIS CLOSE TO
CODE COMPLIANCE POSSIBLE IF IT
IS THE MAIN THING AND YOU HAVE
HUNDREDS OF FIFTY KIDS, SEVENTY
KIDS, WHATEVER GOING UP AND
DOWN THESE MAIN STAIRS, YOU
KNOW THAT'S THAT'S A VERY GOOD
POINT ON WHY IT NEEDS TO BE AS
CLOSE TO CODE AS POSSIBLE AND
SO SO THERE'S THERE'S NO MORE
THERE'S NO ONE INTO THE REC
ROOM THAT'S JUST ALL OPEN NOW
AND EVERYTHING AS I THAT
FLOORED EVERYONE IS ONLY A HALF
.
SO PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE GOING
DOWN AND HAVING TO GO TO THE
BATHROOM FOR AN EVENT.
>> YOU'RE CORRECT ABOUT THAT.
THE LONG TERM PLAN THERE WERE
ACTUALLY PLANS SUBMITTED TWO
YEARS AGO TO REMODEL THE
BASEMENT THAT INCLUDED NEW
BATHROOMS IN THE BASEMENT.
IT WOULD BE HOPE THAT THOSE
WOULD BE ADDED AT SOME POINT IN
THE FUTURE.
>> BUT THAT'S STILL THAT'S
STILL A PLAN.
BUT WE'RE JUST TRYING TO GET
THIS PART DOING IT IN PHASES
AND BECAUSE OF COSTS THERE WERE
SEVERAL ISSUES WITH
ACCESSIBILITY COMPLIANCE WITH
THAT INITIAL SET OF BATHROOM
PLANS.
SO THAT'S A HISTORY ON THAT
ISSUE
.
SO ONE MORE QUICK JUST ONE A
COUPLE OF QUESTIONS.
THE THE GUARDRAIL THAT'S COMING
DOWN ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE
STAIR GO.
SO THAT WOULD HAVE TO CONTINUE,
WOULD IT NOT AT LEAST ONE
TANAGERS PASS?
YEAH, WOULD BE APPARENT TO WELL
THAT'S WHAT I'M TRYING TO
AVOID.
THAT'S WHAT I GOT AND I DON'T
THINK YOU'D HAVE ENOUGH
CLEARANCE BETWEEN THE WALL AND
WHAT WOULD BE THE END OF THE
GUARDRAIL I GUESS I GUESS WHERE
I'M GOING WITH THIS IS WHY
DON'T YOU JUST WHY DON'T YOU
JUST LEAVE THE STAIR OPEN?
WHY PUT A DOOR AT THE BOTTOM IF
THE DOOR AT THE TOP THE THE THE
CEREMONIAL OR THE DECORATIVE
DOOR AND THAT'S THE ONE THAT'S
KIND OF CONTROL SOUND WHY DON'T
YOU JUST MAKE IT THE STAIRS AS
SIMPLE AS POSSIBLE BECAUSE YOU
ARE GOING TO HAVE A PROBLEM
WITH THE GUARDRAIL, WITH THE
RAILINGS BUT THAT'S GOING TO BE
A PROBLEM MATTER WHAT UNLESS
YOU TAKE THE DOOR OFF AT THE
TOP AND RECONFIGURE THE STAIR,
I GUESS I DON'T I DON'T WANT TO
HAVE GUYS COME BACK BECAUSE IF
YOU DO THE GUARDRAIL, IF YOU DO
THE RAILS AND THEN THE
INSPECTOR GOES OUT AND DOESN'T
LIKE THE RAILS BECAUSE THEY
DON'T EXTEND PAST THE LAST
READ, THEN WHAT AND FROM BOTH
SIDES IT'S HAS TO BE ON BOTH
SIDES.
SO YOU KNOW I MEAN
BECAUSE EVEN
IF THIS IS APPROVED WE WANT TO
PROVE NOW THAT YOU KNOW, YOU
SEE WHAT I'M SAYING IS THAT
YOU'RE DOING THIS IN PHASES BUT
IT'S VERY HARD TO START ISSUING
VARIANCES IN PHASES.
I MEAN I WOULD ASK I WOULD ALSO
ASK, YOU KNOW, THE QUESTION
YOU'VE GOT A BIG RECREATION
ROOM DOWN THERE.
WHAT'S THE OCCUPANCY?
DO THOSE DO THE DOORS THE DOOR
TO THE STAIR
HAVE TO SWING IN A
DIFFERENT DIRECTION BECAUSE
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE A HUNDRED
PEOPLE DOWN THERE IS THEY
LIMITED TO 35 WILL BE LIMITED?
>> WELL, SO I MEAN AGAIN, I
DON'T WANT I DON'T WANT TO
START OPENING UP MORE AND MORE
ON MY HANDS WHICH SHOULDN'T YOU
KNOW BUT IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING
THAT THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
GENERALLY DOESN'T RATE
FRATERNITY STRUCTURES FOR
OCCUPANCY THAT UNDER THE
CODE IT'S LIMITED TO SEVENTY
FIVE.
I'M NOT WITH MR. REDMOND BUT
WITH PREVIOUS FIRE MARSHALS.
WE TRIED TO GET SPACES RAIDED
AND WE'VE BEEN TOLD NO SO AND
AND FROM ASSEMBLY USAGE I'M
TOLD THAT THE OCCUPANCY
REQUIREMENT IS SEVENTY FIVE AND
BUT MAYBE THAT COULD BE
VERIFIED BUT THAT'S WHAT I HAVE
KNOWLEDGE OF BASED ON THAT.
>> YEAH I MEAN RIGHT NOW YOU'D
BE LOOKING AT TWENTY TWENTY AND
I SEE CODE IN PRETTY MUCH IT'S
THE SAME BETWEEN BUILDING
CODE AND FIRE CODE FOR
OCCUPANCY LOAD YOU WOULD BE AN
HOUR ARE TO GROUP AND THAT PUTS
YOU ALSO COMMERCIAL BUT WHEN
YOU HAVE ONE SPECIFIC ROOM
WITHIN THAT BUILDING IF IT'S A
YOU KNOW OPEN SPACE AND IT
BECOMES AN ASSEMBLY IF YOU HAVE
OVER FORTY NINE IT'S AN
ASSEMBLY.
OK, SO IT'S NOT THAT I'M NOT
SURE OF THE NUMBER SEVENTY FIVE
IS COMING FROM I HAVEN'T HEARD
THAT I HAVEN'T READ IT I
HAVEN'T SEEN IT BUT ANYTHING
OVER FORTY NINE IS AN ASSEMBLY.
>> OK WELL MAYBE OFFLINE I'D
LOVE TO HAVE THAT CONVERSATION
FROM A COMPLIANCE STANDPOINT
NOT FOR WE MANAGE NINETEEN
OF THESE FACILITIES ON CAMPUS
SO TRYING TO KEEP EVERYBODY
CORRECT UNDER THE CODES IS A
CHALLENGE.
>> I WILL ADD ONE MORE THING TO
THAT THOUGH BECAUSE USUALLY
THIS TOPIC COMES UP TO ME.
MOST PEOPLE WILL COME TO ME FOR
CAPACITIES AND FROM THE LOADS
USUALLY I REFER THEM BACK TO
THE BUILDING BECAUSE THE
CAPACITIES ARE ACTUALLY SHOULD
BE CALCULATED WITH THE DRAWINGS
THAT ARE SUBMITTED BY THE
ARCHITECT FOR THE SEEABLE.
OK, SO IT WOULD BE VERY RARE
THAT MYSELF WOULD COME OUT TO
DO MEASUREMENTS TO CALCULATE
AND DO THAT.
I REFER RIGHT BACK TO THE
CERTIFICATE OCCUPANCY AND WHAT
IT WAS DESIGNED FOR, HOW IT'S
LISTED FOR WHAT TYPE
OF CLASSIFICATION FOR ACCURACY
TYPE AND THEN WHAT ARCHITECT
DEEMED TO BE AND WHAT WOULD
HAVE BEEN ISSUED BY THE
BUILDING DEPARTMENT.
MOST OF THESE STRUCTURES WERE
BUILT ONE HUNDRED YEARS AGO.
THE EXISTING NONCONFORMING USES
BUT AGAIN GREAT CONVERSATION
THAT GOES GO BACK TO MICHAEL
WITH AT A LATER TIME IMBALANCE
WITH AN OCCUPIED BATHROOM COUNT
.
SO YOU KNOW MUCH MORE THAN JUST
EGRESSED THE WITH A NUMBER
OF DOOR LOSING MORE FIFTY NEEDS
TO WAIT OUT OF THE BASEMENT THE
RADICAL SPACE AND DESIGNING IT
FOR MORE THAN THAT AS WELL
.
ONE OTHER QUICK QUESTION ON
YOUR PROPOSED BASEMENT FLOOR
PLAN.
THERE'S A LINE THAT GOES ACROSS
WITH IT SAYS UTILITIES.
IT LOOKS LIKE AN OPENING BELOW
THERE'S A LINE THAT GOES ACROSS
THE ELEVATION AREN'T ELEVATION
IT LOOKS LIKE AN OPENING BELOW
SYMBOL AND CAN I COME OVER TO
THE ELEVATION AREN'T ELEVATION
SEE WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT?
SYMBOL AND CAN I COME OVER TO
>> YEAH, I JUST WANT TO KNOW IF
SEE WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT?
I KNOW WHERE DAVID OH, THAT'S
>> YEAH, I JUST WANT TO KNOW IF
JUST A WALL.
I KNOW WHERE DAVID OH, THAT'S
OH IT IS A WALL.
JUST A WALL.
YEAH.
OH IT IS A WALL.
THAT RIGHT THERE IS A WALL
YEAH.
RIGHT NOW BUT IT WON'T BE WHAT
THAT RIGHT THERE IS A WALL
IT WON'T BE OR IT WILL BE.
RIGHT NOW BUT IT WON'T BE WHAT
>> NO IT'S WE WE WE LEFT
IT WON'T BE OR IT WILL BE.
RUFFORD FOR A DOOR SOMEDAY THEY
>> NO IT'S WE WE WE LEFT
WANT TO PUT A DOOR THERE BUT
RUFFORD FOR A DOOR SOMEDAY THEY
IT'S RIGHT NOW IT'S JUST A
WANT TO PUT A DOOR THERE BUT
WALL.
IT'S RIGHT NOW IT'S JUST A
OH SO YOU REALLY NEED YOU
WALL.
REALLY NEED THE OTHER SIDE
OH SO YOU REALLY NEED YOU
OF THE STAIR TO BE OPEN TO GET
REALLY NEED THE OTHER SIDE
TO GET TO THIS.
OF THE STAIR TO BE OPEN TO GET
>> I DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU MEAN
TO GET TO THIS.
BUT NOW THIS IS A WALL.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU MEAN
YES.
BUT NOW THIS IS A WALL.
THIS IS A WALL NOW.
YES.
OK SO YOU REALLY NEED THIS PART
OF THE STAIR OPEN BUT IT IS
OPEN.
WELL IT IS IN YOUR DRAWING BUT
I WAS GOING TO SUGGEST
SOMETHING ELSE AS FAR AS THE
RAILING SITUATION BUT OBVIOUSLY
THAT'S NOT GOING TO WORK
BECAUSE YOU NEED THE YOU NEED
THIS OPEN TO GET TO THIS AND
YOU NEED THIS DOOR BECAUSE THIS
IS A MECHANICAL IT'S A LOT
YEAH.
MECHANICAL LAUNDRY, WATER OR
WHATEVER IT'S IT'S A UTILITY
BILL SO YOU HAVE TO LIMIT
ACCESS TO IT, RIGHT.
EXACTLY.
OK, SINCE YOU SINCE YOU WERE
TALKING I DID COME UP WITH ONE
POSSIBLE IF YOU IF YOU BEGIN TO
BE REALLY IF YOU MADE THIS
BOTTOM THERE IS ENOUGH HEADROOM
FOR ONE LANE FOR ONE STEP IF
YOU MADE THIS ONE STEP THEN
THIS THEN THE RAILING COULD GO
THERE TEN INCHES GOING THAT WAY
THE RAIN IS COMING DOWN THE
CORNER.
TURN THE CORNER AND THEN
ANOTHER OTHER PROBLEM WITH THE
TWO LEFT TO TWO STEPS WAS THAT
IT CAME TOO CLOSE TO BLOCKING
THIS MEANS OF EGRESS.
SO IF YOU JUST HAD TO IF YOU
MADE THIS BOTTOM ONE ONE JUST
SEVEN SEVEN INCHES AND THEN YOU
HAD THE RAILING GO THAT WAY
THAT IT WOULD WORK OK, I WANT
TO GIVE YOU THE HEAD.
>> YOU NEED THE LANDING RIGHT?
GET YOU UNDER THE BATHROOM
GOING TO HELP YOU.
RIGHT.
BUT IT DOESN'T CHANGE THE
OVERALL GEOMETRY OF THERE.
IF YOU HAD THE EXTRA YOU STILL
STUCK WITH IF YOU TOOK THE
BOTTOM IN A BIT.
>> YEAH.
YOU WOULD BELIEVE THE VARIANCE
BUT THEN IT WOULD SOLVE THE IT
WOULD SOLVE THE HANDRAIL.
OK, IF YOU GOT RID OF THE DOOR
AT THE TOP THE STAIRS AND THAT
WOULD BE THE ONLY THING THAT
WOULD CHANGE HELP YOU GET YOUR
DEGREE.
YEAH RIGHT.
WHAT DID THE NOSE TO NOSE I
DON'T ACTUALLY KNOW SINCE
THERE'S 17 TIMES WHEN I BEGAN
WORKING ON IT SHOULD WORK TO
TAKE TWO STEPS OFF THE BOTTOM
TWO GUYS AT THE BOTTOM HAD TO
RISE TO THE TOP AND THAT WOULD
FIT THE SPACE THAT YOU HAVE
EVEN IF FOR WHICH FIRST YOU
TALK ABOUT THEIR VERSION THAT
KEEP THE CODE BEHIND COMPOSED.
OH GREAT GREAT.
YOU TOOK OFF YOU CAN GOT TO
START HERE.
WE NEED TO WITH HOW WE FIT
THERE NEEDS TO BE DONE THERE
EVEN IF YOU GOT RID THE DOOR.
YEAH YEAH DEFINITELY DON'T WANT
TO GET RID OF COULD YOU BUILD A
WALL IN THE BASEMENT WHERE YOU
HAVE A DOOR AT THE BOTTOM
OF THE STAIRS.
>> NO BECAUSE THEN THAT WOULD
BLOCK THE MEANS OF EGRESS ON
THAT ON THAT SO YOU GO DOWN
LETS YOU GO I CAN SHOW YOU THAT
.
>> EXPLAIN IT.
YEAH.
SO IF YOU GO DOWN DO SOMETHING
LIKE THIS AND THEN JUST FILL
THIS THING WITH THE WALL THEN
YOU LOSE ALL INTEREST IN THE
OPENING AND THEN YOU GOING
THROUGH TWO DOORS TO TO THIS IS
THIS IS THE MAIN EGRESS DOOR OK
SO I'M INSIDE OF THE STORE JUST
SWUNG THIS WAY SO SMALL THINGS
RIGHT THERE AND THIS IS EVERY
STORE OUT HERE RUNNING OUT THIS
WAY EVERY DOOR IS BEING PUSHED
OPEN GOING THAT WAY YOU HAVE A
SOLID WALL FOR NO NOISE COMING
UPSTAIRS.
YOU BETTER INSULATION BECAUSE
THIS IS ALL BLOCKED OFF HERE
WITH SOUND INSULATION AND THEN
THE UPSTAIRS WILL JUST BE LEFT
OPEN.
YOU CAN TALK THAT STARE BACK AT
TWO STEPS TO YOUR DRAWING AND I
DON'T I DON'T THINK YOU CAN
MOVE NOW THAT YOU'RE SAYING
WITH A VERY, VERY QUICK WORD
HERE TOO THAT COULD BE THE SAME
ANOTHER BEING THERE'S ANOTHER
DENHA IN THE CEILING THAT'S
RIGHT AT THE BASE OF THIS WHERE
THE STAIRS START GOING DOWN,
BREAK THEM BOTH IN AND
COMMENTATORS.
>> OK, SO THERE'S THE LANDING
RIGHT THERE.
YEAH, THERE'S ANOTHER BEAM
THAT'S GOING RIGHT.
HERE'S A BEAM THAT'S GOING
ANOTHER BEAM THAT'S CARRYING
ALL OF THIS PART OF THE
BUILDING ON THE FLOOR ABOVE
THAT.
THAT'S WHY THE STAIRS START
THERE SO THAT YOU CAN'T YOU
CAN'T GET RID OF THAT.
OH SO THAT YOU CAN'T MOVE THE
STAIRS BACK.
THAT'S WHY I WAS REFERRING TO
ONE OF THE WINDOWS THAT
BUILDINGS THAT PEOPLE WOULD BE
OK.
REUNION SHOW IS IN THE DRAWING.
IT'S NOT CLEAR.
WELL, IT'S I THOUGHT THIS IS
THE FLOOR RIGHT?
>> OH, BECAUSE IT LOOKS LIKE
THAT FAMOUS FURTHER BACK ON
THIS COLUMN WHEN THEY ARE
SHOWING VARIANTS TO EVERY
SINGLE ONE IT MAY BE IT LOOKS
LIKE YOU HAVE A GOOD TWO FEET,
TWO TREADS ARE NOT WRONG.
SORT OF LOOKS LIKE I MEAN I'D
HAVE TO GO THERE AND MEASURE IT
TO FIND OUT THERE IS A I KNOW
THERE IS A
BUT ANOTHER ONE
OF THOSE BIG BEAMS RIGHT THERE
SO I WOULD SUGGEST STARTING
WITH A STRUCTURAL DRAWING THAT
SHOWS WERE ALL THE BEAMS RIGHT
BECAUSE THAT WE WOULD GIVE US
INFORMATION AND THEN DO WHAT WE
CAN AND CAN'T MOVE.
AND I SAY WE'RE JUST TRYING TO
WE'RE TRYING TO MAKE THIS PASS.
RIGHT.
LOOK, WE'RE NOT WE'RE NOT WE'RE
NOT TRYING TO SAY I KNOW WHAT
YOU'RE DOING AND WHAT WE ARE
DOING.
WE'RE DIGGING DEEP HERE TO TRY
TO TO TRY TO HELP UNDERSTAND
THE BARRIERS AND WHAT THE
LIMITS ARE BECAUSE LIKE
OF COURSE IT'S IT'S NOT IT'S
NOT JUST THE STAIRS.
IT'S THE HANDRAILS.
IT'S THE EVERYTHING AND HAVING
THAT AMOUNT OF OCCUPANCY GOING
DOWN THERE AND AND THINGS LIKE
THAT I DON'T THINK THAT THEY'RE
GOING TO WANT TO HAVE I I
DIDN'T I DON'T THINK THEY'RE
GOING TO WANT TO HAVE THAT
OPENING AT THE AT THE TOP.
>> SO I UNDERSTAND THAT LIKE
THEY DON'T WANT TO SO THERE ARE
TWO DOORS AND THE FIRST FLOOR
THEY GO INTO THE BETWEEN THE
MAIN HALL AND THAT STAIRWAY
WOULD THOSE BE THE SOUND DOORS
YOU HAVE TO WAIT RIGHT HERE
THAT COULD BE THEIR OWN
ISOLATION DOOR THAT DOOR AND
THESE COULD BE DOORS ARE
CLOSED.
THAT'S SEPARATES THE SOUND THAT
WAY TO COME UP USE THE TOILET
ROOM.
WELL IT'S THIS STAIRCASE IS
OPEN TO THE ENTIRE ROOM.
YEAH.
SO WE GO UPSTAIRS THOSE ROOMS
ALL DOORS ON THE RIGHT AND ALSO
LEAVE THE ROOM TO BREAK.
YOU DON'T HAVE A SECOND FLOOR
PLAN BUT YEAH.
SO I TRULY THINK YOUR BEST BET
IS TO CREATE A DOOR AT THE
BOTTOM OF THE STAIRS AND IF YOU
MOVE BACK TO MEET THE TEAM TO
TRY TO CREATE BECAUSE EVEN EVEN
IF WE IF WE'RE IF WE APPROVE IT
AS IS YOUR NEXT PROBLEM, IT'S
GOING TO BE HERE IF WE JUST DO
DO THIS THE STUFF GOING OFF TO
THE SIDE.
YEAH, BUT IF WE ARE FOR THIS
THERE'S NO THERE'S NOTHING TO
APPROVE THAT FOR TODAY.
CORRECT.
WE NEED WE NEED THAT THAT PLAN
THAT YOU WOULD APPROVE.
SO IF YOU DO DO THIS STUFF OFF
TO THE SIDE, YOU DO DO THOSE
THINGS PERFECTLY BUT THAT'S THE
PLAN WE NEED IN ORDER TO
APPROVE AND BECAUSE YOU KNOW WE
CAN'T I JUST WANT TO ADD WITH
THE WITH THE EXTENT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT CHANGING THESE
PLANS, IT'S GOING TO REQUIRE A
NEW REVIEW.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A WHOLE
YEAH.
NEW PLAN REVIEW.
I'M TALKING ABOUT RECONFIGURING
JUST THAT THAT'LL BE AN ELEMENT
THAT'LL NEED TO HAPPEN WITH THE
AMOUNT OF CHANGES THAT ARE
BEING DISCUSSED AT
CLARIFICATION WITH THE PROPOSED
VARIANCE PLAN TO STOP WHAT'S ON
THERE IF THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE
SAYING.
SO TO GO FROM WITH THE EXISTING
AND NOW IF WE SAY THE PROPOSED
VARIANCE PLAN WOULD BE APPROVED
WITH THE STEP IN THE HANDRAIL,
IT'S ALL BEING IN THE SAME
RIGHT AREA.
IT WOULD NEED THAT SO IT
WOULDN'T NEED TO COME IN FOR
REVIEW.
WE WOULD EVALUATE IT IF THERE
WERE NON-COMPLIANT ELEMENTS
FOUND THE APPLICANT WOULD BE IN
FORMED AND THEN IF THEY WOULD
HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO COME
BACK TO THE BOARD SO SO THE
CITY DIDN'T DENHA THE CHANCE TO
REVIEW THIS.
>> THIS WAS THIS WAS REVIEWED
AND WHAT THEY'RE APPEALING NOW
IS THAT THEY'RE APPEALING WHAT
WE FOUND ON PLAN REVIEW.
SO THEY SUBMITTED THIS THEIR
PROPOSED PLAN WAS SORT OF THEIR
LAST WHAT THEY GAVE US LAST
TIME SAYING THAT THEY NEEDED
THE VARIANCE FROM THE WIDTH AND
RAZOR HEIGHT AND THAT WAS THE
PART THAT WAS EVALUATED.
IF THERE'S A RECONFIGURATION WE
JUST NEED TO LOOK AT TO DO A
PLAN REVIEW AND THEN WHEN THE
ELEMENTS THAT COMPLIANT ARE
IDENTIFIED THEN IT WOULD COME
BACK HERE IT IN ORDER FOR US TO
BE ABLE TO INSPECT IT TO TO GET
A TO GET A CLEAR APPROVAL IF IF
THE VARIANCE IS APPROVED WE
JUST NEED SOMETHING TO GO BY AS
IT IS RIGHT NOW WITH THE
CHANGES WE'RE TALKING ABOUT.
I'D HAVE NO WAY TO INSTRUCT
SOMEBODY IN THE FIELD OF HOW TO
INSPECT WHAT WAS APPROVED.
>> SO ON YOUR REVIEW, DID YOU
GUYS CATCH THE HANDRAIL
SCENARIO?
>> I DON'T KNOW.
ALL THAT I KNOW IS THAT THE
ONLY VARIANCE THAT WAS
REQUESTED WAS THE WAS THIS SURE
TO BE READ FACTNESS HANDRAIL?
I DON'T BELIEVE SO.
BUT I MEAN I ASK A
CODE INTERPRETATION QUESTION
AND I'M NOT SURE IF THIS IS
BUILDING CODE OR HOUSING
CODE BUT WHERE THAT DOOR IS AT
THE TOP OF THE STAIRS THAT'S A
FIRE RATED STAIRWAY THAT GOES
UP AND THEN GOES DOWN IS OPEN
ON THE BOTTOM.
YEAH.
SO THAT IF IT'S FIRE RATED THEN
THIS PLAN DOESN'T WORK.
OK, SO THERE'S A STAIRWAY AND
THERE'S FIRE RATED DOORS AT
EVERY LEVEL AND THE DOOR THAT'S
AT THE TOP OF THE STAIRS IS A
FIRE RATED DOOR INCIDENT.
NO I'M SORRY I'VE GOT GLASS AND
NO WELL IT WAS AGAIN THAT'S
PROBABLY A A NONCONFORMING USE
BASED ON THE TIME THAT IT HAS
BEEN THERE.
BUT WHAT I'M TRYING TO GET AT
IS IF WE REMOVE THAT DOOR, ARE
WE CREATING ARE WE VIOLATING
SOME OTHER CODE OR CREATING
ANOTHER PROBLEM THAT WE HAVE TO
SOLVE OR IS THERE A WAY TO KEEP
THE DOOR AND WE JUST TAKE THE
BUT YOUR VARIANCE CAN DESTROYED
THE FIRE RATING IN THAT ROOM IN
THAT ROOM BY HAVING NO RETURN.
BUT THE MAIN IS THIS ER THE
MAIN POWER THAT COMES IN AT THE
TOP AT THE TOP IS REVERSE FOR
THE FIRST PART NOT ENOUGH IT
WOULDN'T THE BASEMENT WOULD
HAVE TO BE A FIRE IN THE
ASSEMBLY.
SO WE'RE GETTING TO A POINT
WHERE I DON'T KNOW THE BUILDING
WELL ENOUGH TO START MAKING
THESE SPEAKING TO IT IF IF THE
PLAN IS CHANGING SIGNIFICANTLY
WE'LL TAKE A PLAN IN WILL WE
REVIEW IT AND THEN THAT WOULD
SORT OF BE THE STEP FORWARD
WITH THE AMOUNT THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT CHANGING AT THIS
POINT AS MUCH AS WE WOULD LIKE
TO RESOLVE THIS TODAY WITH THE
RECONFIGURATION WE'RE TALKING
AND CAN WE REQUEST ANOTHER 60
DAY TABLING AND PROVIDE MORE
INFORMATION AND RESEARCH THIS
DOOR ISSUE COME BACK AGAIN?
>> I DEFINITELY THINK IT'S A
GOOD IDEA FOR YOU.
I HAVE GOOD POINTS VALID POINTS
I AND BUT AGAIN WE'RE JUST
TRYING TO GET THIS TO YES.
FOR IF IT'S RIGHT I'VE BEEN ON
THAT WE'RE NOT TO LET'S SEE
WE'RE NOT TRYING TO BE HARD ON
IT BUT TO UNDERSTAND ON OUR END
WE'LL WORK WITH YOU TO GET A
REVIEW DONE AS QUICKLY AS
POSSIBLE IF YOU'RE GIVING US
SOMETHING THAT NEEDS THAT SO
THAT WE CAN GET BACK HERE, I
WILL MENTION THAT NEXT MONTH'S
MEETING IS ON A HOLIDAY SO IT
WAS GOING TO BE CANCELED SO IT
WOULD BE THE FOLLOWING MONTH
JUNETEENTH WHICH ORIGINAL EXACT
DATES IT'S SO YOU KNOW, YOU
MENTIONED THE BUSINESS ABOUT
THE RATING.
I MEAN FROM THE BEGINNING IT TO
ME IT DIDN'T MAKE SENSE TO HAVE
A RATE.
IT'S THERE FROM THE BASEMENT TO
THE LOBBY IF THE LOBBY OR THE
BEST DEAL ITSELF IS NOT RATED
IF YOU HAVE A RATE THERE IT
USUALLY HAS TO DISCHARGE INTO A
RATING CORRIDOR OR SOMETHING
ELSE WENT TO THE OUTSIDE TO THE
BOARD DIRECTLY TO THE OUTSIDE
SO THAT TOOK AWAY THAT RATING
REQUIREMENT WHICH PRESUMABLY
MADE THINGS A LITTLE BIT EASIER
AS FAR AS THE REST OF THE STAIR
OPENS THERE TO THE HOW MANY
FLOORS ARE IN THIS BUILDING
THREE THREE FLOORS PLUS THE
BASEMENT.
>> WELL YEAH, I THINK THE DOORS
MAY HELP YOU WITH IT WOULD BE
MOVING PASSAGE OF SMOKE.
YEAH.
I DON'T YOU'RE PROBABLY RIGHT
THAT THAT HOWEVER THIS WAS
PASSED EONS AGO THEY DID WHAT
THEY DID TO MAKE IT MINOR.
>> SUCH WAS WHEN THE HOUSING
FIRST CAME IN IN 1978 ALL
OF THESE OLD BUILDINGS HAD TO
GO THROUGH A SERIES
OF VARIANCES TO COME AS CLOSE
TO COMPLIANCE AT THAT TIME.
SO THERE'S A BUNCH OF THINGS
THAT DON'T MEET CODE BUT HAVE
BEEN ALLOWED TO BE
NONCONFORMING USES AND WHEN WE
GO THROUGH THE HOUSING
CODE INSPECTIONS, THESE SORTS
OF THINGS COME UP.
>> YEAH.
SO JUST YEAH I MEAN THE HOUSING
WOULD BE MY DOOR THAT IT DOES
NOT FIRE WOULD FIRE IT WITH YOU
A LABEL BUT IT HAD GLASS IN
THERE SO I STOP SMOKE FROM
MOVING BUT IT WAS NOT GOING TO
START A FIRE RIGHT.
I WAS TOO CHICKEN WIRE GLASS SO
AT ONE TIME IT MAY HAVE BEEN
ALLOWED.
YEAH AND NOW IT'S ONLY A SMALL
PROPORTION THAT'S ALLOWED FOR
FIRE THE DOOR BUT YEAH THEN
YOU'VE GOT ACCESS.
YEAH I MEAN IF YOU'RE DOING ALL
THIS WORK YOU STILL HAVE ANY
BATHROOMS DOWN THERE THEY WILL
EVENTUALLY FIND YOU KNOW I WAS
THINKING THIS IS ONE OF THE
THING WITH THESE WITH THE
QUESTIONS ABOUT FIRE RATINGS
AND REQUIRED STAIRWAY'S WHEN
YOU PREPARE YOUR PLAN IF YOU
COULD JUST ADDRESS THAT SO WE
KNOW WHAT WE'RE LOOKING AT WHEN
YOU WITH WHATEVER YOU RESUBMIT
JUST GIVE US THE LAYOUT
OF WHAT'S REQUIRED SO THAT WE
KNOW THAT TWO FOR REVIEW AND
TWO IT'LL CLEAR UP SOME
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS THAT HAVE
BEEN BROUGHT UP.
I HAVE ONE REQUEST IF YOU'RE
GOING TO TABLE THIS AND PRESENT
,CAN YOU COME UP WITH A
OCCUPANCY LOAD FOR THE LOWER
FLOOR?
OK, PROPOSED BUT OUR PROPOSED
OCCUPANCY LEVEL SHOULD BE LESS
THAN FORTY NINE OR FORTY NINE
OR LESS BECAUSE THE NUMBER
OF BOXES YOU HAVE NOW BECAUSE
THAT COULD AFFECT OK IT'S
REASONABLE TO LOOK INTO THE
ALSO I MEAN I WOULD JUST SAY
DOUBLE CHECK FIRE ROUTES AND
DOOR SWINGS AND STUFF LIKE THAT
WAS IN THE VERSION WHATEVER HOW
MANY TIMES AGO THAT WAS
ORIGINALLY SUBMITTED I BELIEVE.
BUT THAT SHOW THE FIRE THE STAR
RATING OR THAT BASEMENTS ARE
BEING RATED, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> YEAH.
SO THE PART IS THAT THE PATHS
OF EGRESS AND ALL THAT AND THEN
IF I WERE TO GO TO THIS AREA IN
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE THAT
COULD GO THROUGH THAT PAIRS
OF DOORS ALREADY OUTSIDE THAT
READING YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
FOR THE STAIRWAY INCLUDE THAT
EXTENSION ON THE OUTSIDE.
SO I DON'T KNOW WHICH ONE YOU
MEAN
THE KITCHEN STAFF
SOMETHING TO ME HAS
DETERIORATED THE READING ALSO
WRAP AROUND YOU KNOW ALL THAT
NO, NO STOP JUST THIS ONE AND
THIS IS THE DIFFERENCE WHAT I
GET USED TO THE REQUIRED YOU
KNOW, THE EARTH HERE IN THE
FIRST NO PRIORITY THIS WELL.
RIGHT.
YOU KNOW, YOU'RE READING THIS
EARLIER TO THAT READING.
WELCOME BACK STAIRWAY.
WELL, WHERE DOES YOUR
PERSONALITY THE ARMY WE WERE
USING THAT'S JUST THERE FOR THE
OK BECAUSE THERE'S NO ONE TO GO
DIRECTLY RIGHT.
AND THEN THE OTHER ONE SO
YOU'RE COMMUNICATING SERIOUSLY
THE GRAY AREA?
OH, JUST LOOKING YEAH.
THE OTHER STAIRS OVER THERE TO
THIS I HAVE THE LAST ONE THEY
NEED TO GO NO NO NO.
IS THAT AGAIN A FUTURE PLAN TO
YOU KNOW THERE'S NO WAY THAT
ONE CAN WORK OK?
THERE'S NOT ENOUGH SO AGAIN
LIKE WE'RE NOT TRYING TO BE
DIFFICULT OR JUST TRYING TO
HELP YOU GUYS GET TO THAT POINT
IF YOU GUYS WANT TO TABLE UP
FOR ANOTHER SIX DAYS, IT WOULD
BE JUNE 18TH AND THEN JULY
MEANING UNLESS YOU GUYS HAVE A
SPECIAL REQUEST FOR ME,
ANYTHING ON THE OTHER SIDE THIS
WOULD MEAN THAT WE CAN'T BUILD
IT THIS SUMMER.
IT'S NICE TO KNOW THAT I
UNDERSTAND BUT TO GIVE ANOTHER
TIMING AND OTHER I MUST MAGIC
WITH THE OWNERS TO COME UP WITH
A COMBINED PLAN.
I DON'T YOU CAN ALWAYS REQUEST
A SPECIAL MEETING.
>> I THINK IT'S REALLY ALLOWED
IN THE FIRST MEETING WAS APRIL
MEETING WAS OR THAT WE HAVE A
SPECIAL MEETING I HEARD
INITIALLY IT WAS STATE WORKERS
AS WELL THAT I WAS THAT WE NEED
TO PUT TOGETHER A MEETING FOR
TOGETHER A MEETING FOR JUNE
WHICH WE INITIAL PLAN WAS TO
CANCEL THE JUNE MEETING.
BUT IF YOU THINK YOU CAN BE
READY, WE CAN JUST RESCHEDULE
IT FOR A DIFFERENT DAY THAT
MONTH.
IT'LL PROBABLY BE IN THE THIRD
WEEK.
THE THE OTHER THING HERE IS
THAT SORT OF WAY TO MR IF YOU
GO UP WITH THE PLAN AND IT
ACTUALLY WORKS, YOU DON'T HAVE
TO COME BACK HERE YOU
INVARIANCE WE UNDERSTAND AND SO
HERE IS A REVIEW BY YOU AND
YOUR DI AND IT ALL WORKS.
YEAH YEAH I WORK WITH BATHROOM
THOUGH I THINK YOU KNOW WHEN
RIGHT SO YOU CAN REQUEST A
SPECIAL MEETING AGAIN YOU COULD
IF IT WORKS YOU DON'T HAVE TO
COME BACK.
I KNOW OF COURSE EVERYONE'S
MOVING OUT THIS SUMMER IN THE
SUMMER IS THE BEST TIME TO GET
ALL THIS STUFF DONE BUT SEE
WHAT YOU GUYS CAN COME UP WITH
GO FROM THERE.
UNDERSTOOD.
WILL IF WE COULD REQUEST SIXTY
DAYS AND IF WE THERE'S AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR SPECIAL MEETING
I'LL ADDRESS THAT WITH MISS
HARPER.
>> THANK YOU.
AND THEN IF YOU LET ME KNOW
DIRECTLY WHEN YOU'VE SUBMITTED
THAT PLAN I CAN MAKE SURE THAT
THAT WE GIVE IT A QUICK REVIEW.
THANK YOU, MICHAEL.
I APPRECIATE THAT.
SO WE WOULD NEED A MOTION TO
TABLE MOTION TO TABLE FOR THE
DURATION TO TWO DAYS FOR SIXTY
DAYS SORRY MOTION TABLE FOR
SIXTY DAYS SECOND IN FAVOR I
TABLING AS PASSED.
>> THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR TIME
IN TRYING TO MAKE THIS WORK FOR
US.
>> APPRECIATE IT.
MOTION TO ADJOURN MOTION TO
ADJOURN IN FAVOR.
>> I WILL RETURN TO WORK BY
MONDAY